as Kendrick Lamar said it was always me
versus the world until I found its me
versus me I think that's where most of
us start we think that there's something
outside that we're struggling against we
think that literally the world is
against us and we're raging against
something but we don't even know what
that thing is that we're raging against
and as you fight and try to make your
way and as you try to accomplish
something incredible you find you're not
making any headway and that moment that
you finally begin to break through and
build something extraordinary in that
moment the realization is that it was
always you trying to figure out how to
become the best version of yourself and
once you grasp that once you let the
noise die away once you stop worrying
about what other people think what other
people want what other people have
accomplished what other people have once
you let go of all of that and ask one
simple question how extraordinary can I
become what am i capable of what are my
limits how far can i push myself in this
time that I have on this earth exactly
how much of my potential can I wring out
of myself and by that I don't mean
something mystical by that I mean how
much can I become capable of how far can
i push myself what can I build how can I
change this
world but all by doing one simple thing
pushing myself to give better every day
and as Napoleon Hill said strength and
growth come only through continuous
effort and struggle so the irony is when
you let go of trying to please the world
when you let go of trying to change the
world when you stop trying to move
mountains you will realize that a far
harder struggle awaits you and that
struggle is becoming something new that
struggle is becoming something different
that struggle is Reese entering yourself
finding out who you are building your
piece by piece until finally you realize
what it takes to actually become a
better version of yourself you realize
that it takes nothing less than your
everything your total commitment every
bit of focus that you have a willingness
to break yourself down so that you can
build yourself back up but if you're
willing to put in that effort if you're
willing to transform if you're willing
to change and fight and struggle you
will be rewarded with growth you'll be
rewarded with improvement you'll be
rewarded with the ability to close your
eyes imagine a world and then open your
eyes and make that world come true as
Derek Jeter said there may be people who
have more talent than you but there's no
excuse for anyone to work harder than
you do at the end of the day whether you
believe in talent or not is completely
irrelevant
everyone should believe in hard work
everything in your life is literally a
result of that you're born an infant a
lump of flesh that can't even hold its
own head up and yet somehow by
practicing by learning by growing you're
able to get better you're literally
incapable of anything when you're born
every skill that you have in your life
all the things that you take for granted
at one point you couldn't do them so
understanding that humans truly are an
adaptation machine and that they are
capable of acquiring any skill that they
want but it requires hard work it
requires that you do the reps it
requires that you put in the effort and
at the end of the day the people that
you're going to surpass are not going to
be the people that have less talent than
you maybe they even have more talent
than you it's going to be the people
that you're willing to work but until
you're willing to outwork them you're
always going to be stuck and as John
Irving said to do anything really well
you have to overextend yourself and
that's the key if you
want to put in an extraordinary
performance if you want to absolutely
dazzle people then you have to do
something amazing you have to be willing
to put yourself out there you have to be
willing to do things that other people
think are gonna break you that other
people simply believe there's no way
that you could be able to pull that off
that the human animal just is not
capable of the links to which you are
professing to go and when you profess it
you have to be willing to back it up and
you have to put yourself on that marsh
knowing in no uncertain terms under no
circumstances and for no reason
whatsoever would you ever be willing to
back down and when you go in with that
level of certainty then and only then
are you actually gonna be able to pull
this off and this Billie Jean King said
champions keep playing until they get it
right
fatigue will literally chip away at your
will to win it is the thing inside of
your mind that weak voice that tells you
that you're not going to be able to make
it the weak voice that begs you to stop
and the weak voice that promises safety
and security if you would just quit and
here's the worst part about that it's
right if you quit right now if you stop
just sit down relax you're not at risk
anymore you're not a risk of
embarrassment you're not at risk of
failure
but you're also not at risk of greatness
and if you really want to achieve
something you've gotta find ways to put
yourself at risk of something great
happening you've got to put yourself at
risk of overextending yourself you've
got to be willing to face that you may
die that you may actually fall and
here's the thing for the people that
dismiss that that say they would never
put themselves in that situation then
you have limits and make no mistake
those limits are self placed and for the
people that are willing to push that for
people that are willing to go beyond
that for people who understand there are
things in this world that they're
prepared to die for and it is the thing
that they put at the center of their
life it is the thing that they are
living for but they're not gonna stop
and they understand that we're the human
mind thinks it will break is far short
of where it will actually break but
before you can find that point you've
got to be willing to push yourself
you've got to be willing to go harder
and farther than anybody thinks is
reasonable or sensible that's the path
and so the question is can you be
thought of fooled the question is do you
believe in something so much that you
would put yourself at risk like that the
question is can you face down everyone
including the weak voice inside of your
own mind to make the world come true
that you want to see come true because
at the end of the day nobody's going
for you so if you're a champion keep
going until it's done
[Music]
[Applause]